# financial_data_analysis

This project is interested in exploring trends in stock market performance. We plan to web scrape current and historical stock price data from yahoo finance (or similar), code a few metrics for comparing stock performance over time (trailing returns over time periods, large magnitude gains and losses). We plan to combine these financial market indicators with one or more types of data representing external societal trends, and to explore correlations between those data and stock prices.

Specifically, we will try to correlate google search term frequency with stock prices. It was reported in multiple journal articles authored or co-authored by Google employees that search terms with negative affect occur more frequently with company or stock names prior to a sell off. There are psychological implications related to risk aversion, where consumers may spent more time investigating sources of potential losses than potential gains (of equal size). The idea is that an uptake in individuals searching for information related to stock/company losses might foreshadow a stock price drop.

Accomplishing this will include elements of web scraping, calculation of derived indicators, statistical analysis, semantic/affect analysis, exploration of correlation, and tabulation/graphical display/reporting. Machine learning could also be relevant, but simple statistical correlation might be sufficient. This undertaking hinges on being able to work with Google Trends (for search term frequency analysis) in a programmatic way, either through web scraping or some possible API. If that doesn’t work, we will explore some other aspects of financial analysis with same stock price data.
